# lcfc

This repository contains files corresponding to the manuscript, "Robust lexically-mediated compensation for coarticulation: Christmash time is here again," currently in press in Cognitive Science.

The pre-registration plan for this study is available at https://osf.io/567dq.

The "stimuli" folder contains the .wav/.mp3 files used for each of the three pilot studies as well as those that survived piloting and were used in the final experiment.

The "analysis" folder contains files data, R scripts, and plots:
- LCFC.RProj: An RProject file for this study. This plays nicely with the “here” package and makes it such that the user does not need to change the path of the working directory. Open this to launch your R session.
- .R files: The R scripts used for this study. Load a script once you have opened the R Project file.
- Subfolders within the analysis folder contain raw data from Gorilla for each of the three pilot studies (pilot_context_pairs, pilot_target_pairs, and pilot_cfc) as well as the two LCfC studies (lcfc_experiment and lcfc_replication). The R script calls on these files.
- .png files: The plots generated by the R scripts.

The "transitional_probability_analysis" folder contains files used to report transitional probabilities for context items used across LCfC studies, as described in the appendix of our paper.

If you are interested in having access to the Gorilla project for any of the pilot experiments or the main experiment reported in our manuscript (e.g., to run a similar study of your own), please sign up for an account on gorilla.sc and email sahil.bamba.luthra@gmail.com with a request for access.
